doc/bytecode_vm.md, before:

# duckyScript Bytecode Virtual Machine

[Get duckyPad Pro](https://www.tindie.com/products/37399/) | [Official Discord](https://discord.gg/4sJCBx5) | [Getting Started](./getting_started.md) | [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)

----

Details of duckyPad duckyScript 3 (**DPDS3**) instruction set, compiler, and binary format.

This is NOT the official implementation, which appears to be close-source.

I designed everything here myself from scratch.

## Background

In duckyScript 1, it's sufficient to simply parse line-by-line, as each line is independent.

duckyScript 3 introduced variables, `IF` statements, `WHILE` loops, and function calls.

Being much more complex, it makes sense to compile the script into bytecode and execute it on a virtual machine instead.

## Virtual Stack Machine

DPDS3 VM is a simple **16-bit stack machine** with **two stacks** and a **Program Counter (PC)**.

* PC points to the current instruction being executed.

* **Arithmetic Stack**: Used to perform calculations and store arguments.

* **Call Stack**: Keeps track of function calls.

Compiled binary is loaded into memory, and PC starts executing from 0x0.

## Instruction Set

Each DPDS3 instruction has a **fixed-length** of **three bytes**.

* First byte (Byte 0) is **Opcode**, specifying the action this instruction perform.

* Second and third byte (Byte 1 and 2) provides optional data.

* They are treated as one uint16_t or two uint8_t depending on the instruction.

## Compiler

The DPDS3 compiler takes a text file and outputs a executable binary file.

The binary file should have extension `.dsb` (duckyScript binary).

Normally this is taken care of in the configurator. But you can also try it out on its own:

* [Download the latest source code](https://github.com/duckyPad/duckyPad-Configurator/releases/latest)

* Unzip, and run with Python 3: `python3 make_bytecode.py input output`

Let's say you have a simple script in `sample_script.txt`:

```
DEFINE TEN 10
VAR $spam = TEN*7+3
DELAY $spam
```

Compile with `python3 make_bytecode.py sample_script.txt output.dsb`

Compiled binary is written to `output.dsb`, along with some extra info:

```
--------- Program Listing After Preprocessing: ---------
1    VAR $spam = 10*7+3
2    DELAY $spam

--------- Assembly Listing, Unresolved ---------

PUSHC     10    0xa           ;VAR $spam = 10*7+3
PUSHC     7     0x7           ;VAR $spam = 10*7+3
MULT                          ;VAR $spam = 10*7+3
PUSHC     3     0x3           ;VAR $spam = 10*7+3
ADD                           ;VAR $spam = 10*7+3
POP       spam                ;VAR $spam = 10*7+3
PUSHI     spam                ;DELAY $spam
DELAY                         ;DELAY $spam
HALT

--------- Assembly Listing, Resolved ---------

0    PUSHC     10    0xa           ;VAR $spam = 10*7+3
3    PUSHC     7     0x7           ;VAR $spam = 10*7+3
6    MULT                          ;VAR $spam = 10*7+3
9    PUSHC     3     0x3           ;VAR $spam = 10*7+3
12   ADD                           ;VAR $spam = 10*7+3
15   POP       0     0x0           ;VAR $spam = 10*7+3
18   PUSHI     0     0x0           ;DELAY $spam
21   DELAY                         ;DELAY $spam
24   HALT



--------- Bytecode ---------
0x01 0x0a 0x00 0x01 0x07 0x00 0x11 0x00 0x00
0x01 0x03 0x00 0x0f 0x00 0x00 0x03 0x00 0x00
0x02 0x00 0x00 0x1b 0x00 0x00 0x08 0x00 0x00


Binary Size: 27 Bytes

```

## Binary Executable

When a key is pressed, the corresponding `.dsb` file is loaded into `bin_buf` in [ds_vm.c](https://github.com/dekuNukem/duckyPad-Pro/blob/master/firmware/dpp_fw/main/ds_vm.c). Execution occurs inside `run_dsb()` with `execute_instruction()`.

Zero-terminated strings are stored at the end of the binary file.

Variables are stored in `var_buf`. Up to 64 variables can be declared. 

## CPU Instructions

All reference to **"stack"** refers to **Arithmetic Stack**. Unless noted otherwise.

|   Opcode<br>Name  | Byte 0<br>Decimal | Byte 0<br>Hex |                                                                                        Comment                                                                                       |   Byte 1  |   Byte 2  |
|:-------:|:---:|:----:|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|:---------:|:---------:|
|   NOP   |  0  |  0x0 |                                                                                      Do nothing                                                                                      |           |           |
|  PUSHC  |  1  |  0x1 |                                                                               Push a constant on stack                                                                               | CONST_LSB | CONST_MSB |
|  PUSHI  |  2  |  0x2 |                                                                              Push value at ADDR on stack                                                                             |  ADDR_LSB |  ADDR_MSB |
|   POP   |  3  |  0x3 |                                                                     Pop one item off top of stack<br>Write it to ADDR                                                                    |  ADDR_LSB |  ADDR_MSB |
|   BRZ   |  4  |  0x4 |                                                              Pop one item off top of stack<br>If value is zero, jump to ADDR                                                             |  ADDR_LSB |  ADDR_MSB |
|   JMP   |  5  |  0x5 |                                                                                  Unconditional Jump                                                                                  |  ADDR_LSB |  ADDR_MSB |
|   CALL  |  6  |  0x6 |                                                              Jump to Subroutine<br>Push PC+1 to **call stack**<br>Jump to ADDR                                                             |  ADDR_LSB |  ADDR_MSB |
|   RET   |  7  |  0x7 |                                                        Return from Subroutine<br>Pop one item off **call stack**<br>Set PC to its value                                                       |           |           |
|   HALT  |  8  |  0x8 |                                                                                    Stop execution                                                                                    |           |           |
|   VMVER  |  255  |  0xFF|     VM Version Check<br>Abort if mismath         ||   VM VER        |


## Binary Operator Instructions

Binary as in **involving two operands**.

All instructions here:

* Pop TWO items off arithmetic stack

* First item is left-hand-side, second item is right-hand-side.

* Perform operation

* Push result back on stack.

|   Opcode<br>Name  | Byte 0<br>Decimal | Byte 0<br>Hex |                                                                                        Comment                                                                                       |
|:-------:|:---:|:----:|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|
|    EQ   |  9  |  0x9 |                                                                                         Equal                                                                                        |
|  NOTEQ  |  10 |  0xa |                                                                                       Not equal                                                                                      |
|    LT   |  11 |  0xb |                                                                                       Less than                                                                                      |
|   LTE   |  12 |  0xc |                                                                                  Less than or equal                                                                                  |
|    GT   |  13 |  0xd |                                                                                     Greater than                                                                                     |
|   GTE   |  14 |  0xe |                                                                                 Greater than or equal                                                                                |
|   ADD   |  15 |  0xf |                                                                                          Add                                                                                         |
|   SUB   |  16 | 0x10 |                                                                                       Subtract                                                                                       |
|   MULT  |  17 | 0x11 |                                                                                       Multiply                                                                                       |
|   DIV   |  18 | 0x12 |                                                                                   Integer division                                                                                   |
|   MOD   |  19 | 0x13 |                                                                                       Modulus                                                                                       |
|   POW   |  20 | 0x14 |                                                                                       Power of                                                                                       |
|  LSHIFT |  21 | 0x15 |                                                                                  Logical left shift                                                                                  |
|  RSHIFT |  22 | 0x16 |                                                                                  Logical right shift                                                                                 |
|  BITOR  |  23 | 0x17 |                                                                                      Bitwise OR                                                                                      |
|  BITAND |  24 | 0x18 |                                                                                      Bitwise AND                                                                                     |
| LOGIAND |  25 | 0x19 |                                                                                      Logical AND                                                                                     |
|  LOGIOR |  26 | 0x1a |                                                                                      Logical OR                                                                                      |

## duckyScript Command Instructions

All reference to **"stack"** refers to **Arithmetic Stack**. Unless noted otherwise.

|   Opcode<br>Name  | Byte 0<br>Decimal | Byte 0<br>Hex |                                                                                        Comment                                                                                       |   Byte 1  |   Byte 2  |
|:-------:|:---:|:----:|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|:---------:|:---------:|
|  DELAY  |  27 | 0x1b |                                                             Pop one item off top of stack<br>Delay the amount in milliseconds                                                            |           |           |
|   KUP   |  28 | 0x1c |                                                                                      **Release Key**<br>Pop ONE item<br>Upper byte: KEYTYPE<br>Lower byte: KEYCODE                             |    |    |
|  KDOWN  |  29 | 0x1d |                                                                                       **Press Key**<br>Pop ONE item<br>Upper byte: KEYTYPE<br>Lower byte: KEYCODE                             |    |    |
|   MSCL  |  30 | 0x1e |                                                                                     **Mouse Scroll**<br>Pop ONE item<br>Scroll number of lines                                           |    |           |
|   MMOV  |  31 | 0x1f |                                                                                      **Mouse Move**<br>Pop TWO items<br>Move X and Y                                                  |          |          |
|   SWCF  |  32 | 0x20 |                                         **Switch Color Fill**<br>Pop THREE items<br>Red, Green, Blue<br>Set ALL LED color to the RGB value                                         |           |           |
|   SWCC  |  33 | 0x21 |                         **Switch Color Change**<br>Pop FOUR items<br>N, Red, Green, Blue<br>Set N-th switch to the RGB value<br>If N is 0, set current switch.                         |           |           |
|   SWCR  |  34 | 0x22 | **Switch Color Reset**<br>Pop one item off top of stack<br>If value is 0, reset color of current key<br>If value is between 1 and 15, reset color of that key<br>If value is 99, reset color of all keys |           |           |
|   STR   |  35 | 0x23 |                                                                          Print zero-terminated string at ADDR                                                                         |  ADDR_LSB |  ADDR_MSB |
|  STRLN  |  36 | 0x24 |                                                                          Same as above, presses ENTER at end                                                                         |           |           |
|   ----  |  37 | 0x25 |                                                                                     Deprecated<br>Do not use                                                                                     |    |    |
|   OLC   |  38 | 0x26 |                                                      **OLED_CURSOR**<br>Pop TWO items<br>X and Y<br>                                                  |           |           |
|   OLP   |  39 | 0x27 |                                                                      Print zero-terminated string at ADDR to OLED                                                                     |  ADDR_LSB |  ADDR_MSB |
|   OLU   |  40 | 0x28 |                                                                                      **OLED_UPDATE**                                                                                     |           |           |
|   OLB   |  41 | 0x29 |                                                                                      **OLED_CLEAR**                                                                                      |           |           |
|   OLR   |  42 | 0x2a |                                                                                     **OLED_RESTORE**                                                                                     |           |           |
|   BCLR  |  43 | 0x2b |                                                                              Clear switch event queue                                                                             |           |           |
|  PREVP  |  44 | 0x2c |                                                                                   Previous profile                                                                                   |           |           |
|  NEXTP  |  45 | 0x2d |                                                                                     Next profile                                                                                     |           |           |
|  GOTOP  |  46 | 0x2e |                                                               Pop one item<br>Go to profile of its value                                                               |           |           |
|  SLEEP  |  47 | 0x2f |                                                                       Put duckyPad to sleep<br>Terminates execution                                                                      |           |           |

## Table of Contents

[Main page](../README.md)

[Getting Started Guide](getting_started.md)

[Kit Assembly Guide](kit_assembly.md)

[Using duckyScript](duckyscript_info.md)

[duckyScript VM](bytecode_vm.md)

[Tinkering Guide](tinkering_guide.md)

[Troubleshooting](troubleshooting.md)

[Firmware Update](fw_update.md)

## Questions or Comments?

Please feel free to [open an issue](https://github.com/dekuNukem/duckypad-pro/issues), ask in the [official duckyPad discord](https://discord.gg/4sJCBx5), or email `dekuNukem`@`gmail`.`com`!

Commit message:

Added bitwise XOR instruction in DSVM, updated dsvm doc

doc/bytecode_vm.md, after:

# duckyScript Bytecode Virtual Machine

[Get duckyPad Pro](https://www.tindie.com/products/37399/) | [Official Discord](https://discord.gg/4sJCBx5) | [Getting Started](./getting_started.md) | [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)

----

Details of duckyPad duckyScript 3 (**DPDS3**) instruction set, compiler, and binary format.

This is NOT the official implementation, which appears to be close-source.

I designed everything here myself from scratch.

## Background

In duckyScript 1, it's sufficient to simply parse line-by-line, as each line is independent.

duckyScript 3 introduced variables, `IF` statements, `WHILE` loops, and function calls.

Being much more complex, it makes sense to compile the script into bytecode and execute it on a virtual machine instead.

## Virtual Stack Machine

DPDS3 VM is a simple **16-bit stack machine** with **two stacks** and a **Program Counter (PC)**.

* PC points to the current instruction being executed.

* **Arithmetic Stack**: Used to perform calculations and store arguments.

* **Call Stack**: Keeps track of function calls.

Compiled binary is loaded into memory, and PC starts executing from 0x0.

## Instruction Set

Each DPDS3 instruction has a **fixed-length** of **three bytes**.

* First byte (Byte 0) is **Opcode**, specifying the action this instruction perform.

* Second and third byte (Byte 1 and 2) provides optional data.

* They are treated as one uint16_t or two uint8_t depending on the instruction.

## Compiler

The DPDS3 compiler takes a text file and outputs a executable binary file.

The binary file should have extension `.dsb` (duckyScript binary).

Normally this is taken care of in the configurator. But you can also try it out on its own:

* [Download the latest source code](https://github.com/duckyPad/duckyPad-Configurator/releases/latest)

* Unzip, and run with Python 3: `python3 make_bytecode.py input output`

Let's say you have a simple script in `sample_script.txt`:

```
DEFINE TEN 10
VAR $spam = TEN*7+3
DELAY $spam
```

Compile with `python3 make_bytecode.py sample_script.txt output.dsb`

Compiled binary is written to `output.dsb`, along with some extra info:

```
--------- Program Listing After Preprocessing: ---------
1    VAR $spam = 10*7+3
2    DELAY $spam

--------- Assembly Listing, Unresolved ---------

PUSHC     10    0xa           ;VAR $spam = 10*7+3
PUSHC     7     0x7           ;VAR $spam = 10*7+3
MULT                          ;VAR $spam = 10*7+3
PUSHC     3     0x3           ;VAR $spam = 10*7+3
ADD                           ;VAR $spam = 10*7+3
POP       spam                ;VAR $spam = 10*7+3
PUSHI     spam                ;DELAY $spam
DELAY                         ;DELAY $spam
HALT

--------- Assembly Listing, Resolved ---------

0    PUSHC     10    0xa           ;VAR $spam = 10*7+3
3    PUSHC     7     0x7           ;VAR $spam = 10*7+3
6    MULT                          ;VAR $spam = 10*7+3
9    PUSHC     3     0x3           ;VAR $spam = 10*7+3
12   ADD                           ;VAR $spam = 10*7+3
15   POP       0     0x0           ;VAR $spam = 10*7+3
18   PUSHI     0     0x0           ;DELAY $spam
21   DELAY                         ;DELAY $spam
24   HALT



--------- Bytecode ---------
0x01 0x0a 0x00 0x01 0x07 0x00 0x11 0x00 0x00
0x01 0x03 0x00 0x0f 0x00 0x00 0x03 0x00 0x00
0x02 0x00 0x00 0x1b 0x00 0x00 0x08 0x00 0x00


Binary Size: 27 Bytes

```

## Binary Executable

When a key is pressed, the corresponding `.dsb` file is loaded into `bin_buf` in [ds_vm.c](https://github.com/dekuNukem/duckyPad-Pro/blob/master/firmware/dpp_fw/main/ds_vm.c). Execution occurs inside `run_dsb()` with `execute_instruction()`.

Zero-terminated strings are stored at the end of the binary file.

Variables are stored in `var_buf`. Up to 64 variables can be declared. 

## CPU Instructions

All reference to **"stack"** refers to **Arithmetic Stack**. Unless noted otherwise.

|   Opcode<br>Name  | Byte 0<br>Decimal | Byte 0<br>Hex |                                                                                        Comment                                                                                       |   Byte 1  |   Byte 2  |
|:-------:|:---:|:----:|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|:---------:|:---------:|
|   NOP   |  0  |  0x0 |                                                                                      Do nothing                                                                                      |           |           |
|  PUSHC  |  1  |  0x1 |                                                                               Push a constant on stack                                                                               | CONST_LSB | CONST_MSB |
|  PUSHI  |  2  |  0x2 |                                                                              Push value at ADDR on stack                                                                             |  ADDR_LSB |  ADDR_MSB |
|   POP   |  3  |  0x3 |                                                                     Pop one item off top of stack<br>Write it to ADDR                                                                    |  ADDR_LSB |  ADDR_MSB |
|   BRZ   |  4  |  0x4 |                                                              Pop one item off top of stack<br>If value is zero, jump to ADDR                                                             |  ADDR_LSB |  ADDR_MSB |
|   JMP   |  5  |  0x5 |                                                                                  Unconditional Jump                                                                                  |  ADDR_LSB |  ADDR_MSB |
|   CALL  |  6  |  0x6 |                                                              Jump to Subroutine<br>Push PC+1 to **call stack**<br>Jump to ADDR                                                             |  ADDR_LSB |  ADDR_MSB |
|   RET   |  7  |  0x7 |                                                        Return from Subroutine<br>Pop one item off **call stack**<br>Set PC to its value                                                       |           |           |
|   HALT  |  8  |  0x8 |                                                                                    Stop execution                                                                                    |           |           |
|   VMVER  |  255  |  0xFF|     VM Version Check<br>Abort if mismath         ||   VM VER        |


## Binary Operator Instructions

Binary as in **involving two operands**.

All instructions here:

* Pop TWO items off arithmetic stack

* First item is left-hand-side, second item is right-hand-side.

* Perform operation

* Push result back on stack.

|   Opcode<br>Name  | Byte 0<br>Decimal | Byte 0<br>Hex |                                                                                        Comment                                                                                       |
|:-------:|:---:|:----:|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|
|    EQ   |  9  |  0x9 |                                                                                         Equal                                                                                        |
|  NOTEQ  |  10 |  0xa |                                                                                       Not equal                                                                                      |
|    LT   |  11 |  0xb |                                                                                       Less than                                                                                      |
|   LTE   |  12 |  0xc |                                                                                  Less than or equal                                                                                  |
|    GT   |  13 |  0xd |                                                                                     Greater than                                                                                     |
|   GTE   |  14 |  0xe |                                                                                 Greater than or equal                                                                                |
|   ADD   |  15 |  0xf |                                                                                          Add                                                                                         |
|   SUB   |  16 | 0x10 |                                                                                       Subtract                                                                                       |
|   MULT  |  17 | 0x11 |                                                                                       Multiply                                                                                       |
|   DIV   |  18 | 0x12 |                                                                                   Integer division                                                                                   |
|   MOD   |  19 | 0x13 |                                                                                       Modulus                                                                                       |
|   POW   |  20 | 0x14 |                                                                                       Power of                                                                                       |
|  LSHIFT |  21 | 0x15 |                                                                                  Logical left shift                                                                                  |
|  RSHIFT |  22 | 0x16 |                                                                                  Logical right shift                                                                                 |
|  BITOR  |  23 | 0x17 |                                                                                      Bitwise OR                                                                                      |
|  BITAND |  24 | 0x18 |                                                                                      Bitwise AND                                                                                     |
| LOGIAND |  25 | 0x19 |                                                                                      Logical AND                                                                                     |
|  LOGIOR |  26 | 0x1a |                                                                                      Logical OR                                                                                      |
| BITXOR | 51 | 0x33 | Bitwise XOR |

## duckyScript Command Instructions

All reference to **"stack"** refers to **Arithmetic Stack**. Unless noted otherwise.

|   Opcode<br>Name  | Byte 0<br>Decimal | Byte 0<br>Hex |                                                                                        Comment                                                                                       |   Byte 1  |   Byte 2  |
|:-------:|:---:|:----:|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|:---------:|:---------:|
|  DELAY  |  27 | 0x1b |                                                             Pop one item off top of stack<br>Delay the amount in milliseconds                                                            |           |           |
|   KUP   |  28 | 0x1c |                                                                                      **Release Key**<br>Pop ONE item<br>Upper byte: KEYTYPE<br>Lower byte: KEYCODE                             |    |    |
|  KDOWN  |  29 | 0x1d |                                                                                       **Press Key**<br>Pop ONE item<br>Upper byte: KEYTYPE<br>Lower byte: KEYCODE                             |    |    |
|   MSCL  |  30 | 0x1e |                                                                                     **Mouse Scroll**<br>Pop ONE item<br>Scroll number of lines                                           |    |           |
|   MMOV  |  31 | 0x1f |                                                                                      **Mouse Move**<br>Pop TWO items<br>Move X and Y                                                  |          |          |
|   SWCF  |  32 | 0x20 |                                         **Switch Color Fill**<br>Pop THREE items<br>Red, Green, Blue<br>Set ALL LED color to the RGB value                                         |           |           |
|   SWCC  |  33 | 0x21 |                         **Switch Color Change**<br>Pop FOUR items<br>N, Red, Green, Blue<br>Set N-th switch to the RGB value<br>If N is 0, set current switch.                         |           |           |
|   SWCR  |  34 | 0x22 | **Switch Color Reset**<br>Pop one item off top of stack<br>If value is 0, reset color of current key<br>If value is between 1 and 20, reset color of that key<br>If value is 99, reset color of all keys |           |           |
|   STR   |  35 | 0x23 |                                                                          Print zero-terminated string at ADDR                                                                         |  ADDR_LSB |  ADDR_MSB |
|  STRLN  |  36 | 0x24 |                                                                          Same as above, presses ENTER at end                                                                         |           |           |
|   ----  |  37 | 0x25 |                                                                                     Deprecated<br>Do not use                                                                                     |    |    |
|   OLC   |  38 | 0x26 |                                                      **OLED_CURSOR**<br>Pop TWO items<br>X and Y<br>                                                  |           |           |
|   OLP   |  39 | 0x27 |                                                                      Print zero-terminated string at ADDR to OLED                                                                     |  ADDR_LSB |  ADDR_MSB |
|   OLU   |  40 | 0x28 |                                                                                      **OLED_UPDATE**                                                                                     |           |           |
|   OLB   |  41 | 0x29 |                                                                                      **OLED_CLEAR**                                                                                      |           |           |
|   OLR   |  42 | 0x2a |                                                                                     **OLED_RESTORE**                                                                                     |           |           |
|   BCLR  |  43 | 0x2b |                                                                              Clear switch event queue                                                                             |           |           |
|  PREVP  |  44 | 0x2c |                                                                                   Previous profile                                                                                   |           |           |
|  NEXTP  |  45 | 0x2d |                                                                                     Next profile                                                                                     |           |           |
|  GOTOP  |  46 | 0x2e |                                                               Pop one item<br>Go to profile of its value                                                               |           |           |
|  SLEEP  |  47 | 0x2f |                                                                       Put duckyPad to sleep<br>Terminates execution                                                                      |           |           |
| OLED_LINE|48|0x30|OLED Draw Line<br>Pop FOUR items<br>`x1, y1, x2, y2`<br>Draw single-pixel line inbetween |||
| OLED_RECT|49|0x31|OLED Draw Rectangle<br>Pop FIVE items<br>`fill, x1, y1, x2, y2`<br>Draw rectangle between two points<br>Fill if `fill` is non-zero|||
| OLED_CIRC|50|0x32|OLED Draw Rectangle<br>Pop FOUR items<br>`fill, radius, x, y`<br>Draw circle with `radius` at `(x,y)`<br>Fill if `fill` is non-zero|||
## Table of Contents

[Main page](../README.md)

[Getting Started Guide](getting_started.md)

[Kit Assembly Guide](kit_assembly.md)

[Using duckyScript](duckyscript_info.md)

[duckyScript VM](bytecode_vm.md)

[Tinkering Guide](tinkering_guide.md)

[Troubleshooting](troubleshooting.md)

[Firmware Update](fw_update.md)

## Questions or Comments?

Please feel free to [open an issue](https://github.com/dekuNukem/duckypad-pro/issues), ask in the [official duckyPad discord](https://discord.gg/4sJCBx5), or email `dekuNukem`@`gmail`.`com`!
