doc/kit_assembly.md, before:

# duckyPad Assembly Guide

[Get duckyPad Pro](https://www.tindie.com/products/37399/) | [Official Discord](https://discord.gg/4sJCBx5) | [Getting Started](./getting_started.md) | [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)

------

Thanks for getting duckyPad Pro!

Here's how to put everything together.

## Join Our Discord!

Join our [Official Discord](https://discord.gg/4sJCBx5) for discussions and latest updates!

## Tools

A small **Phillips-head screwdriver** (`+`shape) should be provided in the package.

A socket bit or **pair of pliers** also helps, but not required.

## Assembly Steps

You should have the following items:

![Alt text](../resources/photos/instructions/items.png)

As well as the following fasteners:

![Alt text](../resources/photos/instructions/fast.png)

Pay special attention to the **brass spacers**!

![Alt text](../resources/photos/instructions/4mm3mm.png)

* One is **slightly shorter** than the other.

* Separate them out before starting

----------

Before we start, **go wash your hands** to discharge static electricity.

First, the antenna cable.

Look at the back of the PCB. Identify the sockets:

![Alt text](../resources/photos/instructions/ant.png)

Match the receptacles, push straight down.

Careful not to bump into nearby components.

It should click in place. Check it's fully seated.

![Alt text](../resources/photos/instructions/ufl.png)

Adjust the cable to avoid overlapping any components.

![Alt text](../resources/photos/instructions/overlap.png)

Hold the `Back Plate` **in the orientation shown**.

Insert `8mm` and `3mm` screws.

![Alt text](../resources/photos/instructions/backscrew.png)

Place **something rigid** against the back, and flip over. The screws should stay in place.

Put on **3mm spacers** (the slightly shorter one)

Moderately tighten, with a socket bit if available. It shouldn't rattle when shaken.

![Alt text](../resources/photos/instructions/3mm.jpeg)

**`IF`** you received some **thin washers**, install them:

![Alt text](../resources/photos/instructions/washer.png)

🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨

And if your Kickstarter Backer Number is **PRIOR TO 155**

[Follow this guide to fix a minor clearance issue](errata.md).

🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨

--------

Install the circuit board, then `4mm spacers`.

* Moderately tighten

* Avoid scratching the PCB or nearby components

![Alt text](../resources/photos/instructions/4mm.png)

Offer up the `top plate`, place the `3mm screws`, **loosely** at first.

Ensure it is **properly aligned**, then tighten all.

![Alt text](../resources/photos/instructions/top.png)

Flip over, wipe surface clean.

Stick `anti-slip pads` on the corners

![Alt text](../resources/photos/instructions/feet.png)

Time for the switches!

* **Make sure the pins are straight!**

* **Make sure the pins are straight!** 

* Otherwise you might damage the socket or the switch

* Match the pins and push in

![Alt text](../resources/photos/instructions/pins.png)

Keycaps next!

Note the orientation ("slope" side pointing left). Just push down.

![Alt text](../resources/photos/instructions/caps.jpeg)

Peel off OLED screen protector.

Match the `D-Cutout` on the knob to the shaft

Push all the way down, make sure it bottoms out.

![Alt text](../resources/photos/instructions/knob.jpeg)

And you're done!

Head back to the [Quick Start Guide](./getting_started.md) to see how to use it!

![Alt text](../resources/photos/instructions/done.jpeg)

## Expansion Module

👇👇👇👇👇👇👇👇👇👇

[See this guide](https://github.com/dekuNukem/duckyPad-expansion-modules/blob/master/README.md) to put your Expansion Module together!

☝️☝️☝️☝️☝️☝️☝️☝️☝️☝️

![Alt text](../resources/photos/instructions/exp.jpeg)

## Table of Contents

[Main page](../README.md)

[Getting Started Guide](getting_started.md)

[Kit Assembly Guide](kit_assembly.md)

[Using duckyScript](duckyscript_info.md)

[duckyScript VM](bytecode_vm.md)

[Tinkering Guide](tinkering_guide.md)

[Troubleshooting](troubleshooting.md)

[Firmware Update](fw_update.md)

## Questions or Comments?

Please feel free to [open an issue](https://github.com/dekuNukem/duckypad-pro/issues), ask in the [official duckyPad discord](https://discord.gg/4sJCBx5), or email `dekuNukem`@`gmail`.`com`!

Commit message:

more details about ufl connector

doc/kit_assembly.md, after:

# duckyPad Assembly Guide

[Get duckyPad Pro](https://www.tindie.com/products/37399/) | [Official Discord](https://discord.gg/4sJCBx5) | [Getting Started](./getting_started.md) | [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)

------

Thanks for getting duckyPad Pro!

Here's how to put everything together.

## Join Our Discord!

Join our [Official Discord](https://discord.gg/4sJCBx5) for discussions and latest updates!

## Tools

A small **Phillips-head screwdriver** (`+`shape) should be provided in the package.

A socket bit or **pair of pliers** also helps, but not required.

## Assembly Steps

You should have the following items:

![Alt text](../resources/photos/instructions/items.png)

As well as the following fasteners:

![Alt text](../resources/photos/instructions/fast.png)

Pay special attention to the **brass spacers**!

![Alt text](../resources/photos/instructions/4mm3mm.png)

* One is **slightly shorter** than the other.

* Separate them out before starting

----------

Before we start, **go wash your hands** to discharge static electricity.

First, the antenna cable.

Look at the back of the PCB. Identify the sockets:

![Alt text](../resources/photos/instructions/ant.png)

Match the receptacles, push straight down. 

If too tight, put some soft cushion on the other side, and use the flat end of a pen for more leverage. Careful not to slip and damage nearby components.

It should click in place. Check it's fully seated.

![Alt text](../resources/photos/instructions/ufl.png)

Adjust the cable to avoid overlapping any components.

![Alt text](../resources/photos/instructions/overlap.png)

Hold the `Back Plate` **in the orientation shown**.

Insert `8mm` and `3mm` screws.

![Alt text](../resources/photos/instructions/backscrew.png)

Place **something rigid** against the back, and flip over. The screws should stay in place.

Put on **3mm spacers** (the slightly shorter one)

Moderately tighten, with a socket bit if available. It shouldn't rattle when shaken.

![Alt text](../resources/photos/instructions/3mm.jpeg)

**`IF`** you received some **thin washers**, install them:

![Alt text](../resources/photos/instructions/washer.png)

🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨

And if your Kickstarter Backer Number is **PRIOR TO 155**

[Follow this guide to fix a minor clearance issue](errata.md).

🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨🚨

--------

Install the circuit board, then `4mm spacers`.

* Moderately tighten

* Avoid scratching the PCB or nearby components

![Alt text](../resources/photos/instructions/4mm.png)

Offer up the `top plate`, place the `3mm screws`, **loosely** at first.

Ensure it is **properly aligned**, then tighten all.

![Alt text](../resources/photos/instructions/top.png)

Flip over, wipe surface clean.

Stick `anti-slip pads` on the corners

![Alt text](../resources/photos/instructions/feet.png)

Time for the switches!

* **Make sure the pins are straight!**

* **Make sure the pins are straight!** 

* Otherwise you might damage the socket or the switch

* Match the pins and push in

![Alt text](../resources/photos/instructions/pins.png)

Keycaps next!

Note the orientation ("slope" side pointing left). Just push down.

![Alt text](../resources/photos/instructions/caps.jpeg)

Peel off OLED screen protector.

Match the `D-Cutout` on the knob to the shaft

Push all the way down, make sure it bottoms out.

![Alt text](../resources/photos/instructions/knob.jpeg)

And you're done!

Head back to the [Quick Start Guide](./getting_started.md) to see how to use it!

![Alt text](../resources/photos/instructions/done.jpeg)

## Expansion Module

👇👇👇👇👇👇👇👇👇👇

[See this guide](https://github.com/dekuNukem/duckyPad-expansion-modules/blob/master/README.md) to put your Expansion Module together!

☝️☝️☝️☝️☝️☝️☝️☝️☝️☝️

![Alt text](../resources/photos/instructions/exp.jpeg)

## Table of Contents

[Main page](../README.md)

[Getting Started Guide](getting_started.md)

[Kit Assembly Guide](kit_assembly.md)

[Using duckyScript](duckyscript_info.md)

[duckyScript VM](bytecode_vm.md)

[Tinkering Guide](tinkering_guide.md)

[Troubleshooting](troubleshooting.md)

[Firmware Update](fw_update.md)

## Questions or Comments?

Please feel free to [open an issue](https://github.com/dekuNukem/duckypad-pro/issues), ask in the [official duckyPad discord](https://discord.gg/4sJCBx5), or email `dekuNukem`@`gmail`.`com`!
